In the last lecture we talked about global worries scopes which lets you at some part of the rescue
query to all the queries that level will execute for a particular model without even telling that Lavell
explicitly.
So for example in our post controller when we fetched all the blog posts by adding the latest scope
like that to a blog post we made it that all the blog posts that were fetched were ultimately ordered
by the created out date.
So I've told you that we'll also see why this is not always the best idea.
So let's start by randomization that created at the date of our blog posts and comments.
So go to the database folder of our application and open the blog post factory and comment factory.
Now since we aren't specifying that created ad column value inside our model factories for both comments
and blog posts the created ad would be the current date and time.
So if we want a bigger spectrum of the dates what we might use is from the faker.
There is this date time between method and you can specify what date it should start with and what date
it should end with by default.
It's now.
So let's use the day time between method and specify what should they created art be.
So we can the creator that faker takes time between let's say that we want the comments to be from three
months ago.
Up until now so we haven't have to specify the second argument and let's do the same for the blog posts.
So save the changes and also paste the same here as the column name is exactly the same.
Now what we can do is we can reload those blog posts and comments.
So let's do that.
Beach b r d d b c.
We will say yes because we want to refresh the database let's generate 20 users what may be around a
hundred blog posts and 500 comments so we'll have more.
Okay now let's see if we have been successful.
Okay.
So you can see that the blog posts are sorted properly by the time when they were created.
Now since I've said we have this global latest scope and it can be applied to any model.
So now it is applied to a blog post.
So let's try to apply it to the comments so let's keep it simple we'll just copy this but methods pasted
inside the comments remove those two codes because they are not needed here.
Everything stays the same.
So this is booting the comment model and we are adding their latest scope.
Of course we do not have an import here so you can either type it explicitly or just press enter when
it is proposing the name so obvious to the.
Maybe just your code will add this use statement to the comment of course save the changes.
And now let's see what is the potential problem.
So let's first find a blog post that has a lot of comments so maybe this one it has 10 comments.
Now this seems to work perfectly here too with sorting comments as you see the newest comments first
and the oldest are last.
So this global scope is also automatically applied for the comments which are fetch together with a
blog post as our relation.
Now let's see what will happen if we will now go to the blog post least So what you see here is actually
a my sequel error.
And it says that mixing group columns like minimum maximum count with no group columns is illegal.
If there is no group by close.
So what that means is by default then my sequel has the setting called only fool group by which is of
course as I said enabled by default.
And what this does is it will reject queries that have are having condition or in our case an order
by condition.
And if this order by refers to columns that are non aggregated columns which means they aren't used
with an aggregate function like minimum maximum or count.
So if you will take a look at this sub query you can see that we are only using aggregate to get a count
of all the elements from the comments table and then we are ordering by created art but we are not grouping
by created that.
So this is what my sequel doesn't like.
So if you would think that this is only a problem with the those comments.
Let's see another example.
But this time we'll run that inside larval thinker.
So first let's go to the Visual Studio code and open our user model so you can see that user has a relation
to up blog posts by the way.
If we are specifying are full class we can do that as a string OK.
Now let's go back to the Save the changes and let us go back to Lavell Tinker.
So let's run it inside a terminal window so peach B artisan Tinker.
So since user has a relation to blog posts as you can hear you can see here we can do the same.
What we did with blog posts and comments we can fetch all the users with count of the blog posts.
So let's see what will happen if we will fetch it like that rim like that.
Remember that the global scope is added to the blog posts so it will attempt to add this order by inside
the blog post query for the created that field and you can see that we have an exact Li the same problem.
Now what you can do with that.
So the simplest solution would be to open the database BHP config file and find my sequel connection
and set this strict option to force.
So it will basically disable this my sequel option that I've mentioned before.
The only fool group by and then when you refresh you can see that you no longer have this problem.
So blog posts are properly sorted by the date using this global scope and also comments are properly
sorted by the newest first.
Also if you will copy disk were inside the Tinker so let's copy that and restart Tinker.
So it picks up the configuration change that we did.
Now let's paste up and you can see that we are also able to fetch the users with the blog posts.
Even when this has sought by which is not grouped by column.
Now let's also take a look at the documentation of this obscure my ask you all option only for group
buying so you can see that it wasn't the default behavior up until 5 7 5 version of the my ask you our
server and having this option disabled might lead to some bugs in your code.
The results of the queries might be non deterministic which means they might lead to unexpected results.
So actually setting this option strict to false is basically like hiding the problem under the carpet.
So just that it doesn't work well with what you have in larval or basically any other framework disabling
some security options that should make everything work better doesn't seem to be a good solution.
I hope you will agree with me.
So what I propose you to do is just enable the default options for the server.
You can also read more about why this option was enabled by default by just googling this option and
asking why it is enabled by default.
Obviously this course is not about that my ask you all specifics and details as this might seem too
complicated thing especially that this course is for beginners.
So you've seen what problems adding are global queries scopes my calls.
So now in the next lecture let's see how we can handle it all nicer by using the local query scopes
and using this behavior of the query scopes only where we actually need them and well to tell Larry
specifically that you would like to actually use them in this specific query.